By popular demand, our
series on drugs continues.
Here's everything you need to know
about cocaine. I'll
explain it to you. Cocaine is a
narcotic substance with powerful
stimulating effects which is obtained through a
refining process from the leaves
of the South American coca plant.
fruit of this refining and in
its purest form it presents itself as a
sort of paste or white powder even
if the cocaine that is normally
peddled on the street is rarely pure and
is actually often mixed with other
substances such as talc, caffeine,
anesthetics, amphetamines or heroin but  before
continuing
remember to subscribe to the channel and if
you want to be sure to receive a
notification when a
new video is published click on the bell and
like this video let's
continue to give us a hand so I'll
explain it to you I'm here with us today
anteater an  guana's friend with serious
drug problems and his brain, in fact
cocaine, like almost all
drugs, to have an effect, must reach
the brain where it arrives
through the bloodstream and there are
many ways to get this
substance into circulation in the blood,
the first is  that of taking it
orally which is also the least
effective method because the active ingredient
of cocaine when ingested is
deactivated by stomach acid
unless it is mixed with
something alkaline. Furthermore, the most
used methods for taking cocaine are
that of  'aspiration
through the nose the so-called
snorting in which cocaine is
rapidly absorbed through the
nasal mucous membranes and smoking in which the
substance is absorbed through the
lungs but the fastest method
is still the direct injection into the
blood
once it reaches the brain
cocaine begins to unleash its
effects by making the user feel a very
strong sensation of euphoria, energy,
pleasure and self-confidence but
these effects only last between
fifteen and 90 minutes after which one will
feel very depressed, tired,
insecure and with a  very strong and
unpleasant need to take more
cocaine
but why does all this happen the
reason is that cocaine like almost all
drugs but alters the normal
functioning of some very important
neurotransmitters of the brain in
particular norepinephrine
the evening
and dopamine norepinephrine is
normally  produced to report
situations that endanger
our safety and makes us feel more
energetic and alert as well as being the
cause of the typical agitated and
paranoid behavior of those who take cocaine.
Serotonin is the neurotransmitter
of happiness and is normally
released when we do
physical activity or  we complete an
important task and it produces
a false sense of security and
self-esteem in those who take cocaine and finally dopamine, the
neurotransmitter of pleasure and
gratification, is the key element of almost
all addictions and to find out more
about family and addictions
we invite you to  review our video
on how to stop smoking where
we discuss the topic in depth
in the meantime it is a concise version
when something beautiful happens to us for
example when we eat a slice of
cake our brain releases
dopamine making us appreciate the event and
fixing it in our  memory to
make us want to repeat
the experience
when we take cocaine
exactly the same thing happens even if in
reality nothing
particularly positive has happened for our
organism but it doesn't end there these are
the receptors through which neurons
receive dopamine  in a healthy brain
when cocaine is taken this
balance situation is upset
because the production of dopamine is
over-stimulated and if the promotion of
dopamine remains excessive and constant over
time as in the case of a
cocaine addict the brain always tends
towards balance  will begin to deactivate
some receptors this phenomenon known
as down regulation causes our
brain to gradually become less and less
sensitive to dopamine and consequently
to experience the same sensation of
pleasure and euphoria and cocaine addicts will
need to use more and more cocaine and in the
long run the  imbalance will be so
great that he will have to take cocaine
just to feel normal and it is this
combination of effects that is the
main cause of cocaine addiction and
those who are addicted to cocaine and do not have
access to the substance run the risk
of being faced with an
addiction crisis.  withdrawal
the symptoms of cocaine withdrawal are
mostly psychological and include anxiety
depression tiredness increased
appetite and are excessive these
symptoms also worsen after a long
period of habitual use
causing you to have suicidal thoughts and
physical symptoms such as nausea vomiting and pain
more serious cases the sensation of insects
crawling on the skin but the worst is
yet to come because in order not to
experience these terrible symptoms
people are pushed to use
cocaine again thus reinforcing
their addiction
the next problem is that more cocaine
it is consumed the easier it is to
suffer overdoses a
cocaine overdose can cause very serious symptoms
such as convulsions stroke
brain hemorrhages or heart attack but let's conclude with
good news
cocaine addiction can be cured and like many other
addictions it is treated mainly
through psychotherapy techniques
through support groups but
above all lots and lots of love and support
from family and friends,
if you liked this video,
like and share and write to us in the
comments what you would like the
next video to be,
we will try to please everyone sooner
or later but if you  you like our work and
you want to help us make more and more
videos faster and faster
you can do it by purchasing one of our
t-shirts just visit our
sport
or you can help us with a donation
of electricity to your country to do so
just visit the website www.pacioli.net
and I'll explain it video and become one of our
supporters the exchange will always receive
some reward your name will appear
in the final titles of the videos I'll explain it to you
thank you all and may the iguana be
with you
[Music]